---
layout: post
title: tooR
---

Root. The super user. The highest, most privileged role in the *NIX world. In some BSD systems, there's also another privileged user called "toor" (or root spelled backwards). With root and toor you can do anything you want on on the system. While this is pretty cool, it's also pretty scary at the same time. Bad things can happen if care is not taken. For starters, it's probably a good idea to lock down access to the root user as best you can. Some people even make it so the only way you can become root is by having physical access to the machine's console or virtual console. Disabling the ability to SSH as root is a good start.

Sudo. I debate with my co-workers all the time about the actual pronunciation and meaning of the word. Is it "pseudo" or "sue-doo"? I think it's pronounced "sue-doo" and I think its meaning is "switch user" and "do" something as that user. It's a way to allow users limited escalated privileges. You can define certain commands they can run with these privileges. You can even specify whether the user needs to use a password or not when running things with these escalated privileges. These rules are all defined in a file usually located in `/etc/sudoers`.

A lot of the system processes that come with linux must run as root in order to access critical parts of the system. This is a model that should NOT be followed. If you're running a process as root, you better know what you're doing or very bad things can happen. Let's say for example you have a simple cron task running as root. All you want it to do is recursively change the ownership of any directories created by bobby to sam. So you have it looking for bobby's directories and running chown -R on all of them with root permissions. What happens if bobby makes a directory called ` .` or ` ..`. Well you may be saying to yourself, Linux already has a directory called dot (current directory) and dot dot (previous directory). Take another look. What if bobby makes a directory called SPACE DOT or SPACE DOT DOT and runs that chown -R from roots cron.

Let's Break it Down.

Roots Cron:
`30 3 * * * root find /usr/local/share -type d -user bobby -exec chown -R sam {} \;`

Roots Current Directory:
`/`

Output of Cron:
`chown -R sam /usr/local/share/from_bobby_to_sam/ .`

OUCH~!

The recursive chown command treated our SPACE DOT directory as a list of 2 different directories `/usr/local/share/from_bobby_to_sam/` and `.` (current directory). Since root's current directory is `/`, we just gave sam ownership to the entire file system rendering the system useless. FAIL.

Don't run processes as root unless you need to. Root is only to be used for administrative tasks like restarting services, etc..
